1. Blood Cancer J. 2025 Mar 28;15(1):49. doi: 10.1038/s41408-025-01263-3.

Venetoclax and azacitidine in untreated patients with therapy-related acute 
myeloid leukemia, antecedent myelodysplastic syndromes or chronic myelomonocytic 
leukemia.

Pullarkat V(1), Pratz KW(2), Döhner H(3), Recher C(4), Thirman MJ(5), DiNardo 
CD(6), Fenaux P(7), Schuh AC(8), Wei AH(9), Pigneux A(10), Jang JH(11), 
Juliusson G(12), Miyazaki Y(13), Selleslag D(14), Arellano ML(15), Liu C(16), 
Ridgeway JA(16), Potluri J(16), Schuler J(16), Konopleva M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation and Gehr 
Family Center for Leukemia Research, City of Hope Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
Duarte, CA, USA. vpullarkat@coh.org.
(2)Abramson Cancer Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine III, Ulm University Hospital, Ulm, Germany.
(4)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Toulouse, Toulouse, France.
(5)Section of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, The University of 
Chicago Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(6)Montefiore-Einstein Comprehensive Cancer Center, Bronx, NY, USA.
(7)Hôpital St. Louis/Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris and Université de 
Paris, Paris, France.
(8)Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Princess Margaret Cancer 
Centre, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(9)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Walter and Eliza 
Hall Institute of Medical Research and University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(10)Department of Hematology, CHU de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(11)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan 
University School of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(12)Department of Hematology, Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.
(13)Department of Hematology, Atomic Bomb Disease and Hibakusha Medicine Unit, 
Atomic Bomb Disease Institute, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki, Japan.
(14)Algemeen Ziekenhuis Sint-Jan, Brugge, Belgium.
(15)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Winship Cancer Institute, 
Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(16)AbbVie Inc., North Chicago, IL, USA.

DOI: 10.1038/s41408-025-01263-3
PMCID: PMC11953227
PMID: 40155601

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: VP reports advisory board 
fees/consultancy/speaker’s bureau from AbbVie, Genentech, Pfizer, Jazz, 
Novartis, Rigel, Sobi, Sanofi, and Amgen. KWP reports grant support and advisory 
board fees from AbbVie; grant support from Agios, Daiichi-Sankyo, and 
Millennium; and advisory board fees from Astellas. HD reports advisory role for 
AbbVie, Agios, Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Berlin-Chemie, BMS, Celgene, 
Gilead, Janssen, Jazz, Novartis, Servier, Stemline, and Syndax and research 
funding from AbbVie, Agios, Amgen, Astellas, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celgene, Jazz 
Pharmaceuticals, Kronos Bio, Novartis, and Pfizer. CR reports a consulting or 
advisory role with AbbVie, Amgen, Astellas, BMS, Boehringer, Jazz 
Pharmaceuticals, and Servier; research funding from AbbVie, Amgen, Astellas, 
BMS, Iqvia, and Jazz Pharmaceuticals; and support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from AbbVie, Novartis, and Servier. MJT reports grant support, consulting 
fees, and advisory board fees from AbbVie, Janssen, Pharmacyclics, Celgene, 
AstraZeneca, and Roche/Genentech and research funding from AbbVie, Gilead 
Sciences, Merck, Janssen, Pharmacyclics, Syndax, and TG Therapeutics. CDD 
reports research support (to institution) from AbbVie, Agios, Astex, BeiGene, 
BMS, Cleave, Foghorn, Forma/Rigel, Immune-Onc, Loxo, and Servier and 
consultancies/advisory board memberships for AbbVie, Astellas, BMS, Genentech, 
Genmab, Gilead, GSK, Immunogen, Jazz, Novartis, Notable Labs, Rigel, and 
Servier. PF reports consulting fees from BMS, AbbVie, Janssen, Jazz, and 
Novartis and research funding (as GFM chair) from AbbVie, Jazz, BMS, Janssen, 
and Novartis. ACS reports consultant/advisory board/research support from, 
AbbVie, Agios, Amgen, Astellas, Celgene/BMS, GlycoMimetics, Jazz, Novartis, 
Phebra, Pfizer, and Teva. AHW reports serving on advisory boards for Novartis, 
Astra Zeneca, Astellas, GSK, Janssen, Jazz, Amgen, Roche, Pfizer, AbbVie, 
Servier, Gilead, BMS and BeiGene; consultation for AbbVie, Servier, Novartis, 
Shoreline, and Aculeus; research funding to the institution from Novartis, 
AbbVie, Servier, BMS, Janssen, Syndax, Astex, Astra Zeneca, and Amgen; serving 
on speaker’s bureaus for AbbVie, Novartis, BMS, Servier, and Astellas; and 
employment by the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute (WEHI). WEHI receives 
milestone and royalty payments related to the development of venetoclax. Current 
and past employees of WEHI may be eligible for financial benefits related to 
these payments. AHW receives such a financial benefit. AP reports a consulting 
or advisory role with AbbVie, Astellas, BMS, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, and Servier; 
research funding from AbbVie, Astellas, BMS, and Jazz Pharmaceuticals; and 
support for attending meetings and/or travel from AbbVie, Novartis, and Servier. 
J-HJ reports being an investigator in an AbbVie-funded trial. GJ reports 
advisory roles for AbbVie, Astellas, Celgene, and Novartis; and research 
collaboration with Amgen, Jazz Pharma, and Novartis. YM reports honoraria from 
Novartis, Celgene, Sumitomo Pharma, Nippon Shinyaku, Chugai, Otsuka, Astellas, 
and Kyowa-Kirin, and research funding from Chugai, and Sumitomo Pharma. DS 
reports advisory roles for AbbVie, Sunesis, Janssen, Novartis, Celgene, Otsuka, 
MSD, Daiichi-Sankyo, Pfizer, Takeda, Astellas, and Teva. MA reports advisory 
role for Syndax pharmaceuticals. CL reports employment by AbbVie and may hold 
stock or stock options. JAR reports employment by AbbVie and may hold stock or 
stock options. JP reports consulting fees as an employee of AbbVie and may hold 
stock or stock options. JS reports employment by AbbVie and may hold stock or 
stock options. MK reports advisory roles and consulting fees from AbbVie, 
Genentech, F. Hoffmann La-Roche, Stemline Therapeutics, Forty-Seven, Auxenion, 
Boehringer, and Dark Blue Therapeutics, grant support from AbbVie, Allogene, 
Astra Zeneca, Genentech, Gilead, ImmunoGen, MEI Pharma, Precision Bio, Rafael 
Pharmaceutical, Sanofi, Stemline-Menarini, Legend, Redona, Sellas, and Vincerx; 
royalties and stock options from Reata Pharmaceutical Inc.; patent US 7,795,305 
B2 on CDDO-compounds and combination therapies, licensed to Reata 
Pharmaceutical; and patents with Novartis, Reata Pharm, and Eli Lilly.


2. Blood Cancer J. 2024 Sep 19;14(1):163. doi: 10.1038/s41408-024-01143-2.

Current status and research directions in acute myeloid leukemia.

Kantarjian H(1), Borthakur G(2), Daver N(2), DiNardo CD(2), Issa G(2), Jabbour 
E(2), Kadia T(2), Sasaki K(2), Short NJ(2), Yilmaz M(2), Ravandi F(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Leukemia, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. 
hkantarjian@mdanderson.org.
(2)From the Department of Leukemia, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.

The understanding of the molecular pathobiology of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) 
has spurred the identification of therapeutic targets and the development of 
corresponding novel targeted therapies. Since 2017, twelve agents have been 
approved for the treatment of AML subsets: the BCL2 inhibitor venetoclax; the 
CD33 antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin; three FLT3 inhibitors 
(midostaurin, gilteritinib, quizartinib); three IDH inhibitors (ivosidenib and 
olutasidenib targeting IDH1 mutations; enasidenib targeting IDH2 mutations); two 
oral hypomethylating agents (oral poorly absorbable azacitidine; fully 
absorbable decitabine-cedazuridine [latter approved as an alternative to 
parenteral hypomethylating agents in myelodysplastic syndrome and chronic 
myelomonocytic leukemia but commonly used in AML]); and CPX-351 (encapsulated 
liposomal 5:1 molar ratio of cytarabine and daunorubicin), and glasdegib 
(hedgehog inhibitor). Other targeted therapies (menin inhibitors, CD123 
antibody-drug conjugates) are showing promising results. To achieve optimal 
results in such a rare and heterogeneous entity as AML requires expertise, 
familiarity with this rare cancer, and the access to, and delivery of disparate 
therapies under rigorous supportive care conditions. In this review, we update 
the standard-of-care and investigational therapies and outline promising current 
and future research directions.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41408-024-01143-2
PMCID: PMC11413327
PMID: 39300079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: HK reports research grants and honoraria from 
AbbVie, Amgen, Ascentage, BMS, Daiichi-Sankyo, Immunogen, Novartis; honoraria 
from Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals, KAHR Medical, Shenzhen Target Rx, Stemline, 
Takeda. TK reports grant or research support from BMS, Celgene, Pfizer, Amgen, 
Jazz, AstraZeneca and Genentech; consultant fees from Agios, Jazz, Genentech and 
Novartis. CDiN reports research support to institution from Abbvie, Agios, 
Bayer, Calithera, Cleave, BMS/Celgene, Daiichi-Sankyo and ImmuneOnc; 
consultant/advisory boards with Abbvie, Agios, Celgene/BMS, Daiichi-Sankyo, 
ImmuneOnc, Novartis, Takeda and Notable Labs. ND reports research funding from 
Daiichi-Sankyo, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Pfizer, Gilead, Sevier, Genentech, 
Astellas, Daiichi-Sankyo, Abbvie, Hanmi, Trovagene, FATE, Amgen, Novimmune, 
Glycomimetics, and ImmunoGen and has served in a consulting or advisory role for 
Daiichi-Sankyo, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Pfizer, Novartis, Celgene, AbbVie, 
Astellas, Genentech, Immunogen, Servier, Syndax, Trillium, Gilead, Amgen and 
Agios. GB reports research funding from Bristol‐Myers Squibb, GlaxoSmithKline, 
Janssen Scientific Affairs, Eli Lilly and Company, Cyclacel, AstraZeneca, 
AbbVie, Oncoceutics, Arvinas, Cantargia, PTC Therapeutics, Argenx, BioTheryX, 
and Bioline and personal fees from PTC Therapeutics, Argenx, BioTheryX, and 
Bioline. GI reports research funding from Celgene, Merck, Kura Oncology, Syndax, 
Astex and Novartis, and received consultancy or advisory board fees from 
NuProbe, AbbVie, Novartis, Sanofi, AstraZeneca, Syndax and Kura Oncology. EJ 
reports research grants and advisory rolls with AbbVie, Adaptive 
Biotechnologies, Amgen, BMS, Pfizer and Takeda, and advisory role with Genetech. 
FR reports research funding from BMS, Amgen, Xencor, Macrogenics, Orsenix, 
Abbvie, Prelude, Astex; consultancy and honoraria from Celgene, BMS, Amgen, 
Astellas, Xencor, Agios, AstraZeneca and Orsenix.


3. Hematology. 2024 Dec;29(1):2392908. doi: 10.1080/16078454.2024.2392908. Epub 
2024 Aug 20.

Venetoclax is effective for chronic myelomonocytic leukemia blastic 
transformation with RUNX1 mutation.

Kashima E(1), Sugimoto Y(1), Nagaharu K(1)(2), Ohya E(1)(3), Ikejiri M(4), 
Watanabe Y(5), Kageyama S(5), Oka K(5), Tawara I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Mie University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Tsu, Japan.
(2)Department of Hematology, Yokkaichi Municipal Hospital, Yokkaichi, Japan.
(3)Department of Hematology, Matsusaka Chuo General Hospital, Matsusaka, Japan.
(4)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Mie University Hospital, Tsu, Japan.
(5)Department of Hematology, Suzuka Kaisei Hospital, Suzuka, Japan.

Background: Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia is a clonal hematological disorder 
with an inherent risk of transformation to acute myeloid leukemia. Recently, 
there has been exponential discovery of molecular abnormalities in patients with 
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Some of these mutations independently 
contribute to a higher risk of transformation and result in inferior overall 
survival. Treatment strategies for patients undergoing blastic transformation in 
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, especially after progressing on hypomethylating 
agents, are currently limited.Case presentation: We present a case of a 
70-year-old male patient with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia blastic 
transformation with RUNX1 mutation following azacitidine monotherapy. Notably, 
he achieved hematological complete remission after the first course of 
venetoclax plus azacitidine, leading to the disappearance of RUNX1 mutation. We 
performed serial assessments of molecular analysis by next generation sequencing 
throughout his clinical course.Conclusion: The presence of RUNX1 mutation is 
associated with higher response rates to venetoclax-based combination therapies 
in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia with blastic transformation. Our findings 
suggest that even after azacitidine monotherapy, venetoclax plus azacitidine is 
effective in targeting leukemic clones harboring RUNX1 mutations. Furthermore, 
we emphasize the significance of molecular analysis, including next-generation 
sequencing, in providing insights into the detailed dynamics of clonal evolution 
and guiding treatment decisions.

DOI: 10.1080/16078454.2024.2392908
PMID: 39163269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. EJHaem. 2024 May 17;5(3):527-534. doi: 10.1002/jha2.911. eCollection 2024 Jun.

Real-world study of the use of azacitidine in myelodysplasia in Australia.

Enjeti A(1)(2), Ashraf A(2), Caillet V(3), Alam A(3), Silar J(1)(2), Keer H(4), 
Castaldi F(5), Paine T(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Public Health University of Newcastle Newcastle New 
South Wales Australia.
(2)Department of Haematology Calvary Mater Hospital Newcastle New South Wales 
Australia.
(3)Prospection Pty Ltd. Sydney New South Wales Australia.
(4)Astex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Pleasanton California USA.
(5)Otsuka Australia Pharmaceutical Chatswood New South Wales Australia.

Hypomethylating agents are the most widely used upfront therapy for patients 
with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) who are not suitable for hematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation. In Australia, azacitidine was, until recently, the only 
approved and subsidized treatment for patients with intermediate-2 and high-risk 
MDS, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, and low blast acute myeloid leukemia. We 
analyzed prescription data to evaluate the real-world persistence and overall 
survival (OS) of patients prescribed azacitidine for the first time in 
Australia. A retrospective cohort analysis of patients who had been prescribed 
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)-listed azacitidine for the first time, 
between January 2016 and April 2021, was conducted using the PBS 10% dataset. 
Treatment persistence and OS were estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods. The 
impact of the number of treatment cycles and treatment adherence on OS was also 
estimated. There were 351 patients in the PBS 10% dataset who initiated 
treatment with azacitidine. The average age (standard deviation [SD]) at 
azacitidine initiation was 71.9 (11.1) years and the average number (SD) of 
azacitidine prescriptions was 5.6 (0.2). The median persistence on azacitidine 
was 15.6 months, and the OS was 13.4 months. The median OS for patients who had 
six or more cycles of azacitidine treatment was greater compared to patients who 
had five or less cycles of treatment. The data from this real-world study 
illustrate the unmet medical needs of patients with MDS treated with azacitidine 
in Australia. The majority of patients are not treated with the optimal number 
of cycles of azacitidine, which is negatively correlated with patient outcomes.

© 2024 The Authors. eJHaem published by British Society for Haematology and John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jha2.911
PMCID: PMC11182405
PMID: 38895081

Conflict of interest statement: Anoop Enjeti has acted as an advisor and 
received honoraria on speaker panel for ASTEX/OTSUKA. The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest specifically related to this retrospective review. 
Francesco Castaldi and Taleisha Paine are employees of ASTEX/OTSUKA but are not 
the commercial manufacturers of any of the drugs analyzed in this PBS dataset 
analysis. Harold Keer was employed by ASTEX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (USA) during 
manuscript development. Harold Keer is currently employed by Taiho Oncology, 
Inc. (USA). Asma Ashraf, Jonathan Silar, Vincent Caillet, and Arif Alam declare 
they have no conflicts of interest.